Expression of Ideas: The art of writing
  Focus on refining the substance of a writer's message
    Focus on topic development, organization and effective language use in relation
    to the writers purpose.
    Development: Refining the content of a passage to achieve the writer's purpose
        These questions get to the heart of the substance of the passage. focus
        on the content of the passage.
      Proposition: adding, revising or retaining thesis statements, topic sentences
      and claims
        Think about the "Bid ideas" and how they can be refined to better clarify
        and structure the writer's message. Thesis statements express the main
        idea of the overall passage. Topic sentences are used to help structure
        and clarify the focus of paragraphs.
      Support: Adding, revising or retaining material that supports a passage's
      point or claims
        Flip side of Proposition questions. How to best flesh out and make more
        effective or convincing. Descriptive details, facts, figures and examples
        The questions will use a word such as "Support"
      Focus: Adding, revising, retaining or deleting material based on relevance
        Purpose is a key consideration here because while some questions will ask
        you to remove informations or an idea that irrelevant to the topic.
        These types of questions will often identify a sentence ask you whether it
        should be kept or deleted.
      Quantitative information: using data from informational graphics to enhance
      the passage
        You may be asked to replace a general description with a more precise one
        based on numerical data.
    Organization: Improving the structure of a passage to enhance logic
        Consider whether the placement or sequence of material in a passage could
        be more logical or whether the opening and closing of a passage and its
        paragraphs can be improved.
      Logical sequence: Ensuring that material is presented in a logical
      order
        You'll want to present things in the order in which they happened.
        One question is to see which sentence should occur first, or next
        Figure out which order or placement makes the passage most logical.
      Introductions, conclusions and transitions: Improving the openings and closing
      and the connections btw information.
        The connective tissue, they help orient the reader. Ask you to think about
        how to make the reader's movement more smooth and meaningful. May be asked
        to add an introduction or conclusion.
    Effective language Use: Revising text to improve written expression and to achieve
    the writers purpose
        Making sure style and tone of a passage are appropriate and consistent.
      Precision: Making word choice more exact or more appropriate
        Require you to replace language with something more specific or to recognize
        that a particular word or phrase doesn't make sense.
      Concision: Making word choice less wordiness and redundancy
        Recognize and eliminate wordy or redundant language, you'll want to
        avoid automatically picking the shortest answer in every case.
      Style and tone: Making word choice consistent with style and tone
        One common question will ask you to recognize cases where the language
        is not keeping with the formality in the passage. And to revise the passage
        improve consistency of tone.
      Syntax: Combining sentences to improve the flow of language.
        The arrangement of words into phrases, grammar rules. Will ask you to
        consider how sentences can be combined blended together to improve flow
        and cohesion or to achieve some other end.
