The passages on the reading test wary in genre
  Purpose, subject and complexity

The test will include a pair of related passages, the questions will ask you to
draw connections between the two selections

Informational graphics such as tables, graphs and charts
You'll be answering questions that deal with both what's stated and implied.
Information and ideas in passages while others focus on structure and Purpose

Some are literary in nature while others are Informational
Key features of the Reading Test passages
    Genre: The reading test includes both literary and Information passages.
    The test includes both a fiction and a historically or culturally important
    portion
    Purpose: Some are mainly focused on telling a story, recounting an event or
    reflecting on an idea or concept. Others present information and ideas.
    Others are best described as arguments.
    Subject: The reading test includes passages in three subjects
      US and World literature, History and science and science.
    Complexity: Some passages are relatively straightforwards while others are
    more complex.

Two other features of passages are important as well.
  Paired passages: Each Reading Test includes a pair of related passages.
  These passages are on the same topic and interact with one another in some other way.
  Different perspectives, or opinions. One may be a general overview while the other
  zeros in one particular event.
  Informational graphics: Some passages include tables graphs charts. Questions may ask to locate
  information and draw conclusions. Make connections.

The reading test will always include
  One passage from a classic or contemporary work of US or world literature.
  One passage or pair of passages from either a U.S. founding document
  One passage on a social science topic from a field such as economics, psychology
  or sociology.
  Two science passages that examine foundational concepts.

Reading Test Questions
  4 answer options, decide which makes the most sense. You'll find questions
  about the passage as a whole the main idea or point of view.
  Wrong answer choices are often tempting, base your answer on a close reading and interpretation
  All of the information you need to answer the questions can be found in the passages.
  Not tested directly on your background

The reading test questions fall into three general categories
  Information and Ideas: These questions focus on the author's message. You'll be
  asked to locate stated information and make reasonable inferences. You'll also
  be asked to figure out the best evidence. Determine central ideas and themes,
  summarize and understand
  Rhetoric: These questions focus your attention on how the author puts together a
  text and how the various pieces contributes. Tone, meaning and style. Point of
  view and purpose. You'll be thinking about how the author constructs a text to make
  it's message clear.
  Synthesis: Only accompany certain passages. Some questions ask you to draw
  connections between a pair of passages. A question may instead ask you something
  more general. Some may ask about informational graphics.

52 question, 65 mins, 4 single passages and one Pair
500-750 words.
Passage subjects, One US and world literature passage, two history passages ->
one from a US founding document or the great global conversation one form social science.
and two science passages.
Questions per passage, 10-11
Command of evidence 10 questions, generally 2 per passage.
Words in context questions, generally 2 per passage.
Analysis in history/social studies 21 question, in the two history/social studies passages
Analysis in science studies 21 question, in the two science studies passages
