First category of the reading test Questions

Information and idea, the authors message
  Ask  you to think carefully about the authors message.
  Things the author mentions directly and explicitly, and things that are not
  directly stated but is otherwise strongly suggested.

There are 6 main types:
  Reading closely: whats stated or implied
    Most general of  the questions types.
    To locate a point or detail in a passage or to reach a conclusion/inferences
    How the information and ideas in the passage could be applied to another analogous case
    Consider what the author is trying to say directly or indirectly.
    Hints:
      "according to the passage", "states", "indicates" -> look for explicit
      "based on the passage", "can be reasonably inferred", "implies" -> implicit
  Citing Textual Evidence: What part best supports a conclusion
    Questions will ask you to determine which portion of the passage provides
    the best evidence for the conclusion.
    Many of these will require you to select the statement the best supports the
    answer to a previous question
    Which one best supports
    Comes in a pair usually, you can reconsider your answer to the first after
    you read the second.
  Determining central ideas/Themes: ~
    What the main point or theme of a passage is.
    Looking for a overarching statement that encapsulates the key point.
    May be stated explicitly or implied.
    "theme" -> passage as a whole
    "main idea" -> one or more paragraphs
    don't pick one that only refers to a detail or fail to fully capture the point.
  Summarizing: Recognizing a effective summary of a passage
    Conveying the most important ideas. Without adding your own interpretation. To choose a best summary
    or reconize where a summary falls short
    "Summary"
  Understanding relationships: Making connections, cause effect, comparison contrast, sequence
    Relationship btw people. ideas, events.
    Cause-and-effect: How one thing is caused another to happen. "Because", "since"
    Comparison-contrast: How two things are similar and or different. "More", "less"
    Sequence: The order in which things happened. "first", "last", "before", "after"
  Interpreting Words and phrases in context: The precise meaning of a particular word
  in context.
    To determine the precise meaning of a particular word or phrase, words with multiple dictionary
    definitions.
    "as used in line x, '[word or phrase]' most nearly means"
